Tom Grant: Welcome!
My name is Tom and I'm a member
of the Apple Pay E-Commerce
team.
Since the launch of Apple Pay,
I've worked with various
technical teams to help launch
merchant and payment gateway
Apple Pay
e-commerce integrations.
Today, I'm excited to share
some of the key knowledge
and best practices we've
accumulated over the years,
and show you
how to integrate Apple Pay
into your website
using the Payment Request API.
Apple Pay was launched
in the US in October 2014.
And since then, we have made
incredible progress.
Apple Pay is now live in over
75 markets around the world,
and millions of brands
have it integrated
into their apps and websites.
Apple Pay works by using
device-specific
tokenized card credentials.
Apple Pay transactions
are processed
just like a regular
credit or debit card.
And Apple does not process
Apple Pay payments,
so you will still need
a relationship
with a payment service provider.
This might be the same provider
that you use
to accept payments online today.
To get a better understanding
of the payment process,
let's look at what happens
during a transaction
for Apple Pay on the web.
The transaction flow starts
when your customer clicks
on the Apple Pay button
and the payment sheet appears,
allowing them to select
and confirm their details.
The customer then
authenticates the transaction,
and the payment data
is encrypted
and passed to the website.
Your website sends
the Apple Pay payment object
to the merchant server.
Your server receives the payment
object and sends the data
to your payment service provider
for processing.
The payment service provider
decrypts the payment data,
then formats and sends
an authorization message
to the acquirer,
who then sends the payment
to the payment network.
The payment network de-tokenizes
the data
and sends the card number
to the issuer for authorization.
The payment confirmation is then
sent back through the chain,
and the customer is notified
by a checkmark
on the payment sheet.
Now, this journey looks
like a lot, but in reality,
this all happens
in just a few seconds.
Now that we know what is
happening behind the scenes
during an Apple Pay transaction
on the web,
let's take a look
at the customer experience.
To do so, we're going
to head over
to the Apple Pay demo site
at applepaydemo.apple.com.
This site is a great resource
to get to grips
with Apple Pay on the web,
and allows you to set up
and test transactions
without your card being charged.
If you're running
into challenges
when working
on your integration,
the Apple Pay demo website
is a great place to come back
and help you figure it out.
This tool supports
many different types
of Apple Pay configuration,
including shipping information,
error handling, and more.
But for now,
let's keep it simple
and stick
to the default settings
to see what a basic transaction
looks like.
It starts when clicking
the Apple Pay button.
A modal will appear
on screen,
which we refer to as
the payment sheet.
The customer selects
their payment options
and authenticates
the transaction.
The transaction is sent
for processing and the outcome
will be displayed at the bottom
of the payment sheet.
And with the payment completed,
the payment sheet will dismiss.
And as easy as that, we've
completed a sample payment.
Now that you've seen what
a typical Apple Pay transaction
looks like, let's get set up
to accept Apple Pay.
We're going to be taking a look
at integrating Apple Pay
with the Payment Request API.
The Payment Request API provides
a cross-browser standard
that lets you collect payment,
shipping address,
and contact information
from your customers.
You can then use
this information
to process their order.
The Payment Request API
simplifies the payment journey
while also ensuring security,
consistency, and accessibility.
If you've integrated
Apple Pay already
with the Apple Pay
JavaScript API,
the steps in this video
should be familiar to you.
So let's see what we need to do
to get Apple Pay integrated.
First, I'll share
the steps required
to configure your environment
in order to accept Apple Pay.
Next, I will show you
how to implement Apple Pay,
from creating a payment request
through to completing
a transaction.
And finally, I will take you
through some tools you can use
to test your Apple Pay
implementation.
We've got a lot to cover,
and by the end of the session,
you'll have an in-depth
understanding
on how to integrate Apple Pay
into your website.
So, let's get started by getting
your environment configured.
First off, confirm that
your payment service provider
supports Apple Pay transactions.
They may also offer Apple Pay
through their own SDK,
which can be a reliable
and easy way
to add Apple Pay to your site.
Confirm that your server
has a valid SSL certificate
and is able to use
TLS version 1.2 or newer.
This will be needed
to communicate
with the Apple Pay servers.
Finally, make sure all pages
where Apple Pay is displayed
are served over https://.
With these items confirmed,
we can begin to create
the credentials you will use
in your Apple Pay setup.
Now, there are two main ways
to create these credentials.
You can create and manage
these yourself
through the Apple Developer
Portal,
or register directly with your
payment service provider.
To understand
the specific configuration
required for your website,
please reach out
to your payment service provider
for more information.
In the following steps,
I'll show you
how to create and manage
your credentials
through the Apple Developer
Portal.
Your organization may already
have an Apple Developer account,
especially if they have an app
on the App Store already.
Ask your account admin
to add you
under the Users and Access
sections on App Store Connect.
If your organization
doesn't already have an account,
sign up
on developer.apple.com.
At the heart
of every Apple Pay transaction
is the merchant identifier,
which identifies you as able
to accept Apple Pay payments.
This is unique to each merchant,
and we recommend using a reverse
domain name-style string.
Next, create a payment
processing certificate.
This will be used to securely
encrypt and decrypt
the payment data passed to you
from your customers' devices.
You will likely receive
a certificate signing request
from your payment service
provider to create this,
as they will be the party
decrypting the transaction.
Then, create a merchant identity
certificate.
This certificate
is used to verify your identity
as a merchant when your customer
initiates a payment.
Lastly, register and verify
the domains and subdomains
where you will display the Apple
Pay button on your website.
To do this, you will enter
the fully qualified domain
you wish to be verified under
the Merchant Domain section
in the Apple Developer Portal.
A file will be generated which
you will download and place
at the .well-known path
on your server.
You will then click
the Verify button,
and Apple servers will reach out
to that location
to verify its presence.
With your environment configured
and your merchant ID created,
you can now implement Apple Pay
into your website.
For a better understanding
of what we are building,
let's take a look
at a more detailed view
of an Apple Pay transaction
on the web.
It begins when the customer
clicks or taps
on the Apple Pay button.
The website creates
a payment request
containing all of the details
for the transaction,
and reaches out to the merchant
server to request a new session.
Once the merchant's identity
is verified,
the Apple Pay servers
generate and return
a merchant session object.
This is passed back to the site
to complete
the validation process.
The customer can then confirm
the details on the payment sheet
and authenticate the transaction
using Face ID,
Touch ID, or their passcode.
The payment data is generated
on the user's device
and securely sent to Apple Pay
servers to be encrypted
with the merchant-specific
payment processing certificate.
The payment data is then
returned to your website.
The data is then sent
to the payment service provider
to be decrypted and processed.
The payment status is returned
by the payment service provider.
The website notifies the user
whether the transaction
was a success, and if so,
the payment sheet is dismissed.
This overall process can
be grouped into four key stages:
presenting Apple Pay,
merchant validation,
payment authentication,
and payment processing.
First up
is presenting Apple Pay,
which includes showing
the Apple Pay button
and displaying
the payment sheet.
Next up is merchant validation,
where certificates are exchanged
between Apple and the merchant
server using two-way TLS.
Then we have
payment authentication,
where the payment is confirmed
and generated.
And finally,
the payment processing stage,
which is largely handled
between the merchant
and the payment
service provider.
Together,
these steps form the basis
of a typical Apple Pay payment
on the web.
We will use this flow
to structure our approach
to implementing Apple Pay.
Let's start by presenting
Apple Pay as a payment option
on our website.
You should display
the Apple Pay button
whenever your customer
is using a supported device.
To check if your customer's
device supports Apple Pay,
call
ApplePaySession.canMakePayments.
It's important to consider
which type of button
best fits your checkout journey.
The Apple Pay API
provides many button types
and a variety of styles
to use in your website,
so you can choose the button
that best fits
the flow of your
purchase experience.
Use the system-provided buttons
to guarantee you are using
an Apple-approved font,
color, caption, and style.
The button can be imported
into your site
using either JavaScript or CSS,
and the style, type,
and localization can easily
be set with attributes.
To add the button
using the JavaScript SDK,
load the button script from
the content delivery network.
You can set CSS properties,
such as the border radius,
to better align the button
with your current UI.
Finally, add the Apple Pay
button element to the page,
setting the attributes
for the style, type, and locale.
For this example, we have chosen
to use the black button style
with the "Check Out
with Apple Pay" caption
and localized it to German.
To view the available
Apple Pay button options,
let's go back
to the Apple Pay demo site
that we took a look at earlier.
Here, you can quickly and easily
change the Apple Pay button's
attributes and CSS properties,
showing the result in real time
at the bottom of the page.
This is a quick and easy way
to generate Apple Pay buttons
and copy and paste the code
onto your website.
Here, you can select
the type of button.
I have chosen black.
Then you can choose the type
to best fit the situation.
And the last attribute
would be the language.
Let's localize this to German
like in the previous example.
Further down,
you have the CSS properties,
such as the button width,
height,
corner radius, and padding.
The configuration for the button
is displayed and updated
within the code block
just below the options.
This can be copied and pasted
into your existing code.
There are a number of different
payment request types available,
allowing you to present
additional information
about the transaction
to the customer.
A typical transaction
is for a one-time payment,
but Apple Pay also
provides payment request options
for recurring payments,
such as subscriptions;
automatic reload payments,
such as store card top-ups;
and deferred payments,
such as for a preorder.
For now, let's look
at building a payment request
for a one-time payment.
To accept Apple Pay payments
using the Payment Request API,
you first need to specify it
as a payment method
using its identifier,
in this case
apple.com/apple-pay.
Alongside the identifier,
we also need to include
some associated data.
This includes a version number,
and we recommend using
the latest version available,
as this comes
with all of the latest
Apple Pay functionality.
Check out developer.apple.com
for the latest information.
We also need
the merchantIdentifier
configured earlier,
what capabilities and networks
you wish to support,
and the country code where
the payment will be processed.
It is especially important
that this is set correctly
to ensure
a compatible cryptogram
is generated in PSD2 markets.
You can optionally include
required contact details
for either
the customer's billing address,
shipping address, or both.
Here, we are requesting
the customer's shipping address.
However, trust and privacy
are extremely important
to think about when requesting
customer data.
Only request
information necessary
to service the transaction
to ensure you are getting
the best conversion
with Apple Pay.
You next need to create
a details object
for the transaction.
This includes display items,
where you can include
taxes, charges, and discounts;
shipping options
to allow the customer
to choose how their order
is shipped,
which is great for offering
an express checkout option;
and finally the total,
containing the currency
and amount to be charged,
and a label containing
the name for the merchant.
The merchant name value
should be the name
the customer associates
with the business,
and will be displayed
next to the word "pay"
in the payment sheet.
The details object is
also where you would include
any modifiers
for the transaction.
Modifiers contain
transaction details that apply
only under certain conditions.
For example, you may wish
to add a surcharge
for paying with a credit card.
If you wanted to request
a recurring payment,
such as for a subscription,
this is also where
you would include the details
of the recurring request.
We can now bring
all of these elements together
to initiate
a new payment request.
Create a new
payment request object
and pass in the methods,
details, and options
into the constructor.
As we've explored,
one of the great benefits
of Apple Pay
is that it can be used
as an express checkout option
to help improve conversion.
You will want to make
the experience
as seamless as possible.
To do so, you should check
that the user has a card
available to make the payment
before displaying
the Apple Pay button.
This can be done by using
Payment Request's
canMakePayment method.
This method checks
that the customer
is on an Apple Pay-supported
device and browser,
and resolves to true
only if the customer
has a card available
to make a payment.
When the customer
taps on the Apple Pay button,
you should use the show method
to display the payment sheet.
Once the payment sheet
is displayed,
it shows
the processing animation
and immediately starts
the merchant validation process.
So, let's see
what that involves.
The merchant validation process
is completed
for every Apple Pay on the Web
transaction
and is an important
security measure
to ensure that the payment
is being processed
by a legitimate
and authorized merchant.
This helps protect users
from fraudulent transactions
and enhances
the overall security
of the payment process.
There are three parties in
the merchant validation process:
the merchant website,
the merchant server,
and the Apple Pay server.
When the Apple Pay button
is pressed,
merchant validation
is automatically triggered
with a call to the
onmerchantvalidation handler.
Inside of this handler,
a call will need to be made
to an endpoint
on the merchant server
asking for a new session
to be created
using the static hostname,
apple-pay-gateway.apple.com
as the validation URL.
To ensure your certificates
remain secure,
the request
to the Apple Pay servers
must come
from the merchant server
and not from the browser
directly.
This is so your merchant
identity certificates
remain secure, are not shared
with users and other parties,
and they cannot
imitate your website.
To request a new session,
the merchant server builds
a session request payload
and posts it
to the Apple Pay servers
using two-way TLS.
The certificate used
for this connection
is the merchant identity
certificate.
Once the merchant's identity
is validated,
a new merchant session object
is generated
and returned to the server.
This object should not
be modified in any way,
otherwise merchant validation
will fail.
The merchant session object is
then passed back to the browser.
You then pass
the merchant session object
to the completion method
to complete
the merchant validation process.
The system will then enable
the payment sheet
for customer interaction.
Let's see how to accomplish
this process in your code.
As soon as the Apple Pay button
is pressed,
the onmerchantvalidation
handler will be triggered.
Inside of this handler,
a call should be made
to an endpoint on the server
to handle requesting
the merchant session.
When received by the browser,
the merchant session object
is then passed as JSON
and used in the complete
callback to finish the process.
Successful merchant validation
results in the payment sheet
updating to notify the customer
that the payment
is ready to be confirmed.
Unsuccessful merchant validation
will cause the payment sheet
to dismiss
right after the customer
has clicked
the Apple Pay button.
If you're having trouble
with merchant validation,
you can use the console
in Safari's built-in
Web Inspector tool
to log errors and objects
when working
on merchant validation.
If you've never used it before,
Web Inspector provides
a powerful set of tools
to debug and inspect web pages,
web extensions, and WKWebViews.
While you run Web Inspector
on your Mac,
you can use it
to debug your code
running on any connected device.
To learn more
about Web Inspector,
check out "Rediscover Safari
Developer Features" from WWDC23.
With merchant validation
covered,
let's now dig
into payment authentication.
When the user changes or updates
fields on the payment sheet,
these selections are shared
through event handlers,
allowing the website
to respond to user input.
Examples of these handlers are
the customer-selected
payment method,
including coupon codes;
the chosen shipping option
is updated;
or there are changes
to the location
of their shipping address.
When the browser calls
one of these handlers,
you have 30 seconds
to process it
and call the updateWith
callback function.
Ensure any server calls to check
shipping address validity
occur in this 30-second window.
If the callback function
is not called in this time,
a message will appear
on the payment sheet
stating that the payment
could not be completed.
Let's look into the
onshippingaddresschange handler
in more detail.
Before the user has
authenticated the transaction,
redacted shipping
contact information
is shared
with the merchant website.
For privacy purposes,
this includes
only the necessary data
for calculating
final transaction costs,
such as taxes or shipping.
Once you've received
this information,
you can calculate
relevant totals.
If you determine
there is a problem
with the address
or contact information
provided by the customer,
you can also create
your own customized
error messages.
Error messaging allows you
to highlight the fields
that require attention,
and provides
clear, actionable guidance
to make it easier for customers
to resolve problems quickly
and complete their transaction.
When Apple Pay provides you
with the data, you can perform
the same validation as you would
for any manual input fields
that you have today
on your website.
When you determine
that there's a problem
with the user's address
or contact information,
you can use ApplePayError
to create
a customized error message.
The details you provide
in an ApplePayError include
an error code that identifies
the area of the payment sheet
with the error;
contact field,
which is the specific field
on the payment sheet
with the error;
and finally the custom message
to display on the payment sheet.
The ApplePayError is
then passed back into the update
with callback from the event.
You can also verify
the user's full address
and contact information
after they have authorized
the transaction with Face ID,
Touch ID, or their passcode.
If there is an issue with
the user's address information,
you can allow them
to retry the transaction
and highlight the issues
that need to be fixed.
If there are error objects
appended to the errors array,
you can prevent the user
from checking out
until the information
is in a format
that your validation rules
expect.
It is recommended
to be as flexible as possible
with the address formats
to ensure your users can perform
a successful transaction.
Also inside of
the Apple Pay payload
is the payment token, containing
the necessary information
to process the transaction.
If you are performing the
decryption of the payment token,
you will do so at this point.
In most cases,
the payment service provider
will handle
the decryption process,
and you can send the token
to them directly for processing.
This token will also contain
the display name of the card
used for the transaction,
which includes the network
and last four digits
of the card number.
This will differ
from the device-specific token
and is what you should use
to indicate to the customer
what card was used
for the transaction,
such as in the order
confirmation email
or on their receipt.
So, that was
payment authentication.
Let's finish up by looking
at payment processing.
Once the process
has been performed
by the payment service provider,
the result must be passed
into the complete method
to notify the customer
of the outcome.
For a successful transaction,
this would be done
by passing in success.
This would update the payment
sheet with a checkmark,
and then dismiss it to complete
the Apple Pay payment process.
Sometimes, a payment might fail,
in which case you can pass fail
into the response handler.
The payment sheet displays
an exclamation point
and the customer is prompted
to try again,
or you can dismiss
the payment sheet.
And with that,
we have now covered
the four primary steps
required to implement Apple Pay.
But of course, no discussion
of implementation is complete
without a mention of testing.
So finally, let's take a quick
look at testing your solution.
To do so,
head over to the Apple Pay
sandbox testing site.
There, you'll find
sandbox credit card numbers
that can be provisioned
on devices to test
your front-end integration
and decryption process.
Keep in mind
that sandbox credit cards
will not be processed
successfully if sent
to a production payment
processing environment.
Sandbox credit cards
are great for testing.
However, we recommend that tests
are performed with real cards
prior to pushing your
implementation to production.
Testing with real cards ensures
your full end-to-end flow
of the payment process
works as you would expect.
And that wraps up testing
and my overview
of getting started
with Apple Pay on the Web.
I've covered a lot,
from configuration
and implementation,
to sandbox testing.
But before I leave you,
I have some next steps
to help you continue your
Apple Pay integration journey.
First, be sure to visit
the Apple Pay demo site.
It's the best starting point
when building
your Apple Pay solution.
Review the Merchant Integration
Guide linked to this session.
It provides a ton of details
on each step on the path
to a well-designed
implementation of Apple Pay.
And finally, check out
the Apple Pay section
of the Human Interface
Guidelines.
There, you'll find
detailed user interface guidance
on how to present Apple Pay
and the payment sheet
on your website.
Thanks for joining me,
and I wish you the best
with your Apple Pay integration.